# Comparative Analysis of Statistical Learning Techniques in Tumor Classification
## Final Submission for MATH2810L.

Breast cancer is the most prevalent form of cancer among women world wide. Current research is focused on early detection of breast cancer as it is the most effective way to significantly improve survival rates. Recent advances in science and machines learning offer promising results in the evaluation of the stage of the tumor and its progression in order to determine the optimal treatment.

This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of various statistical learning techniques applied to the classification of benign and malignant tumors. The diagnosis of tumors as benign of malignant is critical in determining the best treatment and prognosis. Statistical methods offer significant advantages to predict whether a tumor is benign or malignant by leveraging large data sets to make accurate predictions. The data used for this is from the Wisconsin Diagnostic Breast Cancer (WDBC) data set. Various statistical learning procedures were used for prediction.

This data sets consists of 569 samples with 32 features that accompany every sample. Of the samples 357 are benign and 212 are malignant tumors. This study’s primary challenge is determining whether a certain tissue sample is malignant or benign based off the 32 diagnostic features. Many different statistical learning techniques could be used for classification but this study only considers linear regression, logistic regression, linear discriminant analysis, quadratic discriminant analysis, naive bayes, K-nearest neighbors, best subset selection, forward step-wise selection, backward step-wise selection, ridge regression, the lasso, and tree-based methods (classification trees, bagging, and random forests).

You can see the rendered html files [here](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/michaeljohndan/Comparative-Analysis-of-Statistical-Learning-Techniques-in-Tumor-Classification/main/Final.html?token=GHSAT0AAAAAACUYHZX6LV55JHEQEVVVNZJWZUQ3HJQ).
